## Baş kısmını almadım. Friend ve operator overloading kısmı için yazıyorum. -deniz


### Friend Declarations

* A class or a function could access another class's private section if it is declared **friend** of that class.

#### Friend Function Declaration

 ```cpp
class Myclass
{
public:
	friend void func(int);
private:
	int mx{};
	void foo();
};

void func(int)
{
	Myclass m;
	m.mx = 12;
	m.foo();
}

```

Friend functions could be defined as inline in the class definition even if they are not member functions of the class.

```cpp
class Myclass
{
public:
	friend void func(int)
	{
		Myclass m;
		m.mx = 12;
		m.foo();
	}
private:
	int mx{};
	void foo();
};
```

#### Friend Declaration of a Member Function of Another Class

* With this friend declaration, not the whole another class could access the private section, but just a function of it could access the private section.


```cpp

class Data 
{
public:
	void func();
};

class Myclass
{
public:
	friend void Data::func(int)
private:
	int mx{};
	void foo();
};

void Data::func()
{
	Myclass m;
	m.mx = 12;
	m.foo();
}
```

#### Friend Declaration of Another Class

*  Not need to define with an example. Just need to write 
	friend class another_class;

#### Notes:
* You could not define the class as a friend inside itself (The class cannot be friend of itself)
* Friend declaration could be done in any of the section of the class (public, private, protected). It does not matter.
* If A is friend of B (can access the private elements of B), B is not accepted as friend of A if not declared so.
* Friend of my friend is friend of me too is *NOT* true in cpp. 
```cpp
class A
{
	friend class B;
};

class B 
{
	friend class C;
}
// C is not friend of A!
```

* Friend declaration is not shared with inheritance.

### Operator Overloading

* If a *non-primitive* type could be intuitively used with an operator, we could overload that operator to be used with this type. C++ does not support user-defined operator usage internally. So we should define that (Adding two *date* classes).
* Standard library uses operator overloading very much (std::string, std::cout, ...)
* Operator overloading has no run-time cost. It is a compile-time operation.
* Static member functions could not be operator overloading functions.
* Operator overloading functions could be non-static member functions and global functions (global operator function, member operator function).


#### Operator Overloading General Rules
* At least one operand should be a class type or enum type.
* If an operator does not exist in the base cpp, it cannot be overloaded.
* Following operators could not be overloaded:
	* sizeof
	* .
	* typeid
	* ::
	* .*
	* ? :
* Operator overloading function names should be start with the "operator" keyword and it should be followed by the operator's symbol (operator+, operator<, ...)
* Following operator overloading functions could not be implemented as global operator functions:
	* [] subscript operator
	* () function call operator
	* -> member selection arrow
	* type cast operators
	* assignment operators
* Operator functions could be called with their name (m1 = m2 -> m1.operator=(m2)).
* Except function call operator, no operator function could take default input arguments.
* Operator overloading mechanism cannot change the "arity" of the operators. 
  
	* **Global** binary operators' operator overloading functions should take *exactly* 2 parameters, **global** unary operators' operator overloading functions should take *exactly* 1 parameter. 
	  
	* **Member** binary operators' operator overloading functions should take *exactly* 1 parameters, **member** unary operators' operator overloading functions should take *exactly* 1 parameter.
* Some operators are sometimes unary, sometimes binary. Like + operator. It has two meanings: addition and sign. Plus sign operator is a unary operator, addition operator is a binary operator. 
	If you define + operator as a unary operator, the compiler assumes that you wanted to overload the plus sign operator.
* Operator overloading could not change the priority levels or the priority way of the operators.
* Operator overloading functions could be overloaded too.
```cpp
class BigInteger
{
	void operator+(BigInteger& const);
	void operator+(int);
	void operator+(double);
	void operator+(float);
}
```
